# TOBACCO/TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Prohibits the sale of vapor products near schools | Resume Digest for HB302 | https://www.legis.la.gov/Legis/ViewDocument.aspx?d=1484316
                                    RÉSUMÉ DIGEST

ACT 792 (HB 302)                   2026 Regular Session                              Chassion

Existing law defines "vapor product" as any non-combustible product containing nicotine or
other substances that employs a heating element, power source, electronic circuit, or other
electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce vapor from nicotine in a solution or other form.

Existing law further provides that "vapor product" includes any electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of nicotine in a solution or other form that is intended to
be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic
pipe, or similar product or device.

Existing law provides relative to retail dealer permits and the renewal of retail dealer permits
for the sale of vapor products.

New law prohibits, when there is a municipal or parish ordinance, the sale, offer for sale,
storage, or maintenance of stock of vapor products on a premises situated within 300 feet of
a school.

New law provides that in municipalities and in unincorporated areas divided into
subdivisions that the measurement of the 300 feet is to be measured as a person walks using
the sidewalk from the nearest point of the property line of the school to the nearest point of
the premises to be licensed.

New law authorizes the municipality or parish to establish an alternate method of
measurement of the 300 foot limitation by measuring in a straight line from the nearest point
of the property line of the school to the nearest point of the premises to be licensed.

New law provides that the alternative method of measurement applies only prospectively to
a new permit issued on or after the date the alternative method of measurement has been
adopted.

New law does not apply to lawful marijuana or marijuana products regulated by the La. Dept.
of Health.

Effective August 1, 2026.

(Adds R.S. 26:911(A)(7))
