# Public Funds and Financing - As enacted, revises law relative to pension plans and proxy advisors. - Amends TCA Title 9, Chapter 4. | Fiscal Note | https://capitol.tn.gov/Bills/114/Fiscal/SB2641.pdf
 SB 2641 - HB 2476                                                 Fiscal Review Committee
                                                                   Tennessee General Assembly
 FISCAL NOTE                                                       March 2, 2026

    Fiscal Analyst: Nicholas Nicastro | Email: nicholas.nicastro@capitol.tn.gov | Phone: 615-741-2564



SUMMARY OF BILL: Establishes the guidelines by which the fiduciary of a plan, fund, or
program established, maintained, or offered by a political subdivision that does not participate in the
Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System (TCRS) to invest and administer the plan, fund, or
program's assets.

Establishes fiduciary voting responsibilities, and requires the disclosure of investment decisions
inconsistent with shareholder recommendations. Requires a fiduciary of a trust fund, endowment
fund, deferred or tax-sheltered compensation plan, programs under the Tennessee College Savings
Trust Act, and programs under the Achieving a Better Life Experience Act to provide such
disclosures and an economic analysis of such decisions in an annual report to the State Treasurer
(Treasurer). Requires a fiduciary of a retirement plan, fund, or program established, maintained, or
offered by a non-TCRS-participating political subdivision to provide an annual report to provide
disclosures and an economic analysis of such decisions to the chief legislative body of the political
subdivision. Requires, at least once every three years, fiduciaries to perform a back test to verify the
effectiveness of its economic analysis and deliver a report detailing the results to the Treasurer and
chief legislative body of a political subdivision, where applicable.

Establishes the guidelines by which proxy advisory firms are not to advise program investment
decisions. Prohibits the Treasurer, political subdivisions, and fiduciaries from entering an agreement
with proxy advisory firms for the provision of services that do not acknowledge and submit to such
criteria under the contract.


FISCAL IMPACT:

                                    NOT SIGNIFICANT

      Assumptions:

      • Pursuant to Tenn. Code Ann. § 9-4-1401(3), "program" means any of the following which
        are established by law and for which the Treasurer has, or has been delegated, investment
        authority, oversight, and responsibility:
            o A trust fund;
            o An endowment fund;
            o Deferred or tax-sheltered compensation plan or plans, including profit sharing or
                salary reduction plans;
            o Programs under the Tennessee College Savings Trust Act; and
            o Programs under the Achieving a Better Life Experience Act.



                                      SB 2641 - HB 2476
   • The proposed legislation expands what qualifies as a program to include a retirement plan,
     fund, or program that is established by resolution or ordinance, and is established,
     maintained, or offered by a non-TCRS-participating political subdivision.
   • Fiduciaries of a trust fund, endowment fund, deferred or tax-sheltered compensation plan,
     programs under the Tennessee College Savings Trust Act, and programs under the
     Achieving a Better Life Experience Act making investment decisions inconsistent with
     shareholder recommendations must submit an annual report to the Treasurer disclosing
     those investment decisions and an economic analysis of those decisions. The fiduciary must
     perform a back test of the economic analysis at least once every three years and deliver a
     report detailing the results to the Treasurer.
   • Despite the Treasurer being the fiduciary to the aforementioned programs, the Department
     of the Treasury (Treasury) and the Treasurer will provide any required reports and back
     testing as required under the proposed legislation, without a significant increase in state
     expenditures.
   • The fiduciary of any retirement program established and offered by a non-TCRS-
     participating political subdivision making investment decisions inconsistent with
     shareholder recommendations must submit an annual report to the chief legislative body of
     the political subdivision disclosing those investment decisions and an economic analysis of
     those decisions. The fiduciary must perform a back test of the economic analysis at least
     once every three years and deliver a report of the results to the chief legislative body. Such
     fiduciaries will provide reports, economic analyses, and back testing results, without a
     significant increase in local expenditures.
   • The Treasurer, political subdivisions, and fiduciaries will not enter an agreement with a
     proxy advisory firm that does not acknowledge and accept under its contract its statutory
     obligations, in compliance with the proposed legislation.
   • The Treasury and political subdivisions can process and review any respective reports
     submitted by fiduciaries utilizing existing resources.
   • Any impact to overall lump sum liability will be not significant.
   • Therefore, any fiscal impact to state or local government expenditures or operations is
     estimated to be not significant.


CERTIFICATION:

   The information contained herein is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.




                                                                   Bojan Savic, Executive Director




                                  SB 2641 - HB 2476                                               2
