# Schools, Charter - As enacted, allows private postsecondary institutions, including those that are religiously affiliated, to operate a public charter school; allows such institutions to apply to the  | Fiscal Note | https://capitol.tn.gov/Bills/114/Fiscal/HB2000.pdf
 HB 2000 - SB 2318                                               Fiscal Review Committee
                                                                 Tennessee General Assembly
 FISCAL NOTE                                                     February 20, 2026

         Fiscal Analyst: Laura Moore | Email: laura.moore@capitol.tn.gov | Phone: 615-741-2564



SUMMARY OF BILL: Authorizes a private postsecondary institution, including one that is
religiously affiliated, to establish a public charter school.


FISCAL IMPACT:

                                     OTHER FISCAL IMPACT

 An increase in public charter school applications to the Public Charter School Commission or local
 boards of education will result in an unknown increase in state revenue or local revenue from
 applications fees. Additionally, an increase in applications approved by the Commission or local
 boards of education will result in an increase in state or local revenue from authorizer fees, the
 extent and timing of which cannot be estimated.


      Assumptions:

      • The proposed legislation will allow a private postsecondary institution in this state that
        seeks to open a public charter school to apply to the local board of education (LBE) or
        directly to the Public Charter School Commission (Commission).
      • Any increase in administrative burden to the Commission or to LBEs will be absorbed
        utilizing existing staff and resources, without an increase in state or local expenditures.
      • Pursuant to Tenn. Code Ann. §§ 49-13-107(f) and 49-13-128:
             o An authorizer may require a public charter school sponsor to pay an application fee
                 of up to $2,500 per application;
             o If the LBE is the authorizer, the LBE shall receive an annual authorizer fee that is
                 the lesser of three percent of the annual per student state and local allocations or
                 $35,000 per school; and
             o If the Commission is the authorizer, the Commission must receive an annual
                 authorizer fee of up to three percent of the public charter school's per pupil state
                 and local funding.
      • Public charter school authorizers reported the following amounts of authorizer fee revenue
        for the 2024-25 school year:
             o Commission: $2,838,412;
             o Achievement School District: $526,073;
             o Hamilton County Department of Education: $313,463;
             o Knox County Schools: $66,422;
             o Memphis-Shelby County Schools: $1,659,770;


                                       HB 2000 - SB 2318
          o Metro Nashville Public Schools: $910,000;
          o Rutherford County Schools: $70,000.
   • It is unknown how many private postsecondary institutions will seek or be approved to
     operate public charter schools. Therefore, the extent and timing of any increase in state or
     local revenue cannot be precisely determined.
   • Public charter schools are funded primarily by state and local funds in an amount equal to
     the per student state and local funding received by the school district in alignment with the
     Tennessee Investment in Student Achievement Act (TISA).
   • Federal funds are also allocated to the public charter school based on federal laws and
     regulations, including Title I and the Individuals with Disabilities Act.
   • The LBE is responsible for disbursing the local share of funds while the Department of
     Education disburses state TISA funding directly to public charter schools from the TISA
     funds allocated. If the public charter school is authorized by the Commission, then the
     funds must be disbursed directly to the Commission.
   • The TISA base funding amount is based on a local education agency's (LEA’s) average daily
     membership from the prior school year along with any weighted student allocations and
     direct payments.
   • For new public charter schools, the initial allocation would be based on the per-student
     average of all state and local funds received by the LEA.
   • Establishment of new public charter schools throughout the state may result in a shifting of
     state and local TISA funding. However, the net impact to state and local expenditures is
     estimated to be not significant.


CERTIFICATION:

   The information contained herein is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.




                                                                  Bojan Savic, Executive Director




                                 HB 2000 - SB 2318                                              2
